## Understanding some Git terms

+ Git’s lingo is confusing
+ Shout out git words that we know…
+ We’ll explain some of the terms to help

--

## Commit

+ What is a commit in git?
  + Identifier (commit hash)
  + Some content
  + Message (how content changed)
  + References to parent commit(s)
  + Author
  + Authoring date (when originally committed)
  + Commit date (might be altered if commit changes)
+ When would a commit have two parents?

--

## Commit hash

+ Identifier for a single commit
+ Hex value representing an SHA-1 checksum of your commit
  + Hash of the above fields, including a hash of all the content
+ Often abbreviated: `a18d33c810d99b142d1e71cc46eab80231a5b462` becomes `a18d33c`
+ What is the commit hash of the last commit to our repo?
  + `git log`

--

## Stage (verb)

+ Stage files by using `git add`
+ Indicates the contents of the next commit

--

## HEAD

+ `HEAD` is a pointer to the commit at the tip of your current branch
  + What is `HEAD~1`?
  + What is `HEAD~2`?

--

## Working copy

+ A copy of the repository
+ Contains much (if not all) of the history of the repository
+ What is the difference between working copy and repository?

--

## Remote

+ A reference to a remote working copy
+ Might be a repo on github.com
+ Might be somewhere else
+ Remotes have names and addresses
  + What is origin?
  + What other remote names do we know?

--

## Fork (verb)

+ This is not a git term
+ When someone creates a linked working copy of a repo
+ A fork (noun) refers to the linked working copy 

--

## Clone

+ This is a git term!
+ How does cloning differ from forking? 
  + Creates an **unlinked** working copy from a remote
  + The new working copy is **local**

--

## Checkout

+ Switch current branch
+ Not to be confused with Subversion’s checkout command which fetches changes
+ Can create new branch in the process using `-b`
  ```
  git checkout master
  git checkout -b new-branch
  ```

--

## Fetch vs Pull

+ Fetch retrieves but does not apply changes (from a remote)
+ Pull fetches AND merges by default
  + With `--rebase` it rebases instead of merging

## Quick quiz

--

## What is HEAD?

- A remote
- A branch
- A commit
- A tag
- A toilet

Note: (A reference to) a commit

--

## What git command creates a branch?

- `branch`
- `checkout`
- `fork`

Note: `checkout (-b)`

--

## What hash function does a commit hash use?

- MD5
- SHA-1
- SHA-256
- Modulus 11

Note: SHA-1

--

## What does **not** go into the hash?

- Commit message
- Your code
- Remote address
- Your name
- Your email address
- Parent commit
- Soap

Note: remote address